
Reason for Exam: Left upper lobe density, abdominal pain, history 
 of colon cancer. 

 CT CHEST WITH CONTRAST: 

 TECHNIQUE: Multiple axial CT images obtained after IV 
 administration of 100 ml Isovue 300 contrast. 

 FINDINGS: There is marked cardiomegaly with more pronounced right 
 ventricular enlargement and right atrial enlargement. There is 
 enlargement of the main pulmonary arteries and pulmonary trunk 
 consistent with pulmonary arterial hypertension. Calcified 
 atherosclerotic changes are noted of the thoracic aorta and arch 
 vessels. Coronary vascular calcifications also present. A tiny left 
 pleural effusion is noted which may also represent chronic pleural 
 thickening. No right pleural effusion or pericardial effusion. 
 There is no thoracic adenopathy by CT size criteria. 

 Lung windows demonstrate marked apical thickening with left apical 
 pulmonary fibrosis most probably superimposed on paraseptal emphysema.
 Other considerations would include post infectious scarring with
 fibrosis likely in the setting of post granulomatous disease. Diffuse
 interstitial thickening is noted throughout both lungs with peripheral
 fibrosis. Advanced emphysema and hyperinflation is present. A
 multilobulated opacity is seen in the right middle lobe near the
 periphery along the fissure that is 7 mm and is nonspecific. Although
 this may represent post infectious changes, a follow up chest CT is 
 recommended in four to six months to document stability. Faint 
 centrilobular nodules are seen right upper lobe consistent with 
 atypical pneumonia. Focal area of right apical fibrosis with bleb 
 formation. No pneumothorax. No lobar consolidation is identified. 

 Bone windows demonstrate no acute osseus findings. 

 IMPRESSION: 
 1. Marked cardiomegaly with right ventricular enlargement likely in
 the setting of pulmonary arterial hypertension and advanced emphysema
 and chronic interstitial lung disease. 
 2. Left greater than right apical fibrosis with apical thickening 
 and most probable paraseptal emphysema formation. Consider post 
 granulomatous infectious changes versus other forms of primary 
 pulmonary fibrosis. 
 3. Faint centrilobular nodules right upper lobe and nonspecific 
 7 mm nodule right middle lobe. Consider changes of atypical 
 pneumonia. Follow up chest CT recommended in four to six months to 
 document stability. 
 4. Calcified atherosclerotic changes with coronary vascular 
 calcifications. 

