
Reason for Exam: Check for effusion, history of cancer. 

 CT CHEST WITHOUT CONTRAST: 

 Comparison is made from previous study from 7/5/2011. 

 TECHNIQUE: Axial CT images obtained through the chest without 
 contrast. 

 FINDINGS: Significant decrease in a right upper lobe pulmonary 
 lesion which has been previously biopsied and consistent with known 
 primary pulmonary carcinoma. The lesion is approximately 12 mm X 21 
 mm and was previously 26 mm X 19 mm. This is likely treatment 
 related response. Prominent interstitial thickening of the right 
 lung noted with areas of ground glass air space disease and right 
 upper lobe and lower lobe compressive atelectasis in association 
 with a moderate to large nonloculated pleural effusion. Consider 
 underlying associated pneumonia as well. Marked cardiomegaly is 
 stable with changes of prior CABG and coronary calcifications. 
 Slight increase in prominence of right mediastinal lymph nodes and 
 right hilar nodes. There is thinning and attenuation in a 
 concentric fashion of the right hilar airways and may be treatment 
 related versus hilar recurrence. Please correlate clinically. 
 Emphysematous changes are again noted. Left lung remains clear 
 except for minimal left basilar atelectasis and calcified granulomas.
 No new pneumothorax. Resolution of left lung pneumonia. Trace left
 pleural effusion which is nonloculated. Stable bilateral adrenal
 lesions versus adrenal hypertrophy. Upper abdomen otherwise stable and
 unremarkable. Calcified atherosclerotic changes are again noted. Bone
 windows demonstrate no acute osseus findings. Old healed and unfused
 rib fracture seen bilaterally. No destructive osseus lesions are
 noted. 


 IMPRESSION: 
 1. Changes of treatment response with decrease in right upper lobe
 pulmonary mass now approximately 12 mm X 21 mm. 
 2. Probable treatment related changes of the right lung with
 interstitial thickening, faint areas of ground glass attenuation, and
 concentric thickening of the right hilar structures. Treatment related
 changes favored over recurrent disease in the right hilum. 
 3. Moderate to large nonloculated right pleural effusion and 
 trace nonloculated left pleural effusion. 
 4. Right lower lung compressive atelectasis.
 5. Resolution of left lung centrilobular nodules. 
 6. Remainder of exam is stable from previous. 

