
Reason for Exam: Four month follow up for previous abnormalities 
 on CT chest scan. 

 CT CHEST WITH CONTRAST: 

 TECHNIQUE: Axial CT images obtained through the chest after 50 mL 
 IV Isovue 300 contrast administration. 

 FINDINGS: Medial superior segment patchy opacities of the right 
 lower lobe nearly resolved. Residual centrilobular nodules are 
 stable. There is no change in size, appearance, or configuration 
 of a low density fluid-like collection in the right lower lobe 
 periphery with pleural-based attachment that is 3.2 X 2.8 cm on 
 today's exam (previously 3.2 X 2.9 cm) most consistent with post TB 
 changes. There is no change in size, configuration, or appearance 
 of a spiculated area of architectural distortion in the right lower 
 lobe superior segment that is 1.3 X 1.3 cm and was previously 1.3 X 
 1.3 cm. Lack of change over five months favors area of post 
 infectious scarring. Continued surveillance is recommended given 
 its appearance, however. Centrilobular nodules seen throughout 
 both lungs are not significantly changed and some of which continue 
 to demonstrate calcification. Again, these are most consistent 
 with post granulomatous changes. There are no areas of 
 consolidative air space disease. No new nodules or lesions are 
 identified. Biapical scarring is stable. Underlying emphysema is 
 unchanged. 

 There remains no thoracic adenopathy by CT size criteria. Mild 
 ectasia of the ascending thoracic aorta is stable. Mild calcified 
 atherosclerotic changes are again noted and unchanged. Coronary 
 vascular calcifications are stable. No pleural or pericardial 
 effusion. There is distal esophageal wall thickening on today's 
 exam. Please correlate with upper endoscopy. Please refer to CT 
 abdomen for findings of the upper abdomen. 

 Bone windows demonstrate no acute osseous changes. 

 IMPRESSION: 

 1. Resolution of medial right lower lobe patchy opacities. 
 2. Stable spiculated opacity/distortion right lower lobe with
 stability favoring scarring and less likely neoplastic etiology. 
 Continued surveillance recommended. 
 3. Stable low density well circumscribed ovoid lesion right lower 
 lobe periphery with pleural based attachment most consistent with 
 post tuberculosis changes. 
 4. Other findings throughout the lungs are stable from previous 
 including numerous upper lung predominant centrilobular nodules, 
 some of which are calcified, and areas of apical fibrosis and 
 pulmonary scarring. Again, all findings are most consistent with 
 post TB changes with scarring. Continued CT surveillance 
 recommended. 
 5. No new or acute intrathoracic findings identified. 

