
Reason for Exam: Pulmonary nodule right lung. 

 CT CHEST WITHOUT CONTRAST: 

 Comparison made with previous CT abdomen and pelvis exam from 
 11/25/08. 

 TECHNIQUE: Multiple axial CT images obtained through the chest 
 without contrast. 

 FINDINGS: An irregular spiculated mass with necrosis is noted in the
 posterior right upper lobe and is approximately 2.2 X 1.9 cm. This is
 in association with apical fibrosis and paraseptal emphysema. An 
 adjacent noncalcified pulmonary nodule is seen medial right lung 
 apex that is approximately 3 mm. Immediately adjacent and 
 potentially contiguous with the large right posterior upper lobe 
 mass is a second irregular nodule that is approximately 1.7 cm. 
 There are multiple scattered and too numerous to count noncalcified 
 subcentimeter pulmonary nodules throughout both lungs which are 
 nonspecific. There is a focal area of pleural based, rounded, 
 mass-like opacity in the posterior right lower lobe that is 1.9 cm 
 with an adjacent 1.0 cm nodule. This may represent focal area of 
 chronic atelectasis, or may represent a neoplastic lesion. A second 
 subpleural based nodule is noted that is approximately 1.1 cm. No 
 significant air space disease is identified. There is no 
 pneumothorax. 

 Small pericardial effusion is noted. No pleural effusions are seen. 
 There is superior right paratracheal adenopathy and right hilar 
 adenopathy predominantly in the suprahilar aspects. Calcified 
 hilar nodes are also present consistent with post granulomatous 
 changes. Without IV contrast, it is difficult to discern the 
 margins of the presumed enlarged paratracheal nodes. The largest 
 probable conglomerate is in the superior right paratracheal station 
 and is approximately 2.8 cm. Prominent and enlarged right 
 supraclavicular nodes are also seen. A 1.8 cm right 
 supraclavicular node is noted. There is no axillary adenopathy. No 
 left hilar or left prevascular adenopathy identified. No 
 subcarinal adenopathy. 

 Partial imaging of upper abdomen again demonstrates low density 
 liver lesions most consistent with cysts. Bilateral renal cysts 
 are also again noted. 

 Bone windows demonstrate no acute osseous findings. No lytic or 
 blastic osseous lesions are identified. 

 IMPRESSION: 
 1. A dominant, irregular, 2.2 X 1.9 cm posterior right upper lobe 
 mass with necrosis in association with apical fibrosis and paraseptal
 emphysema. 
 2. Additional mass-like opacities in the right lower lobe which 
 are predominantly pleural based which may represent areas of 
 scarring versus neoplastic spread of disease. 
 3. Associated numerous noncalcified pulmonary nodules both lungs 
 which are nonspecific, but may represent noncalcified granulomas 
 versus metastatic nodules versus combination of both. 
 4. Post granulomatous changes. 
 5. Right paratracheal, mediastinal, and suprahilar adenopathy 
 with right supraclavicular adenopathy as detailed above.

